Next Steps
##########
You and other family members have observed several of the *early warning signs* and *causes for concern* in your loved one. Now what? This is one of the most difficult decisions to make.  Approaching Mom or Dad with concern over failing cognitive ability is sure to raise a host of conflicted emotions.  You and other concerned family members may feel discomfort, even fear at approaching your elder with your concerns.  Indeed, most seniors will feel pride, fear, and an unwillingness to accept that they are aging.  They may refuse to see a doctor for evaluation.  This is not unusual, but this is where persistence pays off.  If after many attempts to encourage a visit to the doctor, your loved one still refuses, then a family meeting is in order. 

A family meeting provides the opportunity to share your concerns with your loved one.  It also allows your loved one to express their fears and wishes for their future. in the best of circumstances, it allows all concerned to collaborate on a plan of action.  The first step should be an agreement for a medical evaluation.  A family meeting might include: adult children, very close family friends or other close relatives, and perhaps a member of the clergy.

A doctor's input can be helpful. Elders often place a good deal of trust in their doctors and may take their direction seriously. If your loved one has agreed to have an assessment of their cognitive ability, this is a step in the right direction.  If your loved one refuses to see a medical professional, don't give up.  Keep encouraging them.  Reach out to their medical team with your concerns. Eventually, they will have a routine medical visit come up.  If the medical personnel have been alerted to your concerns, they will find a way to work an evaluation into a routine visit.  
